Our text today is highlighting the fact that we do not want to be trapped by the devil.
And that's what the Apostle Paul was concerned about with the Christians in Colosseum.
If we go to a Colossians where our text is found, notice his words and his recommendations to them in chapter 2 and verse 6 and 7.
He says, therefore, just as you have accepted Christ Jesus the Lord, go on walking in union with Him, being rooted and built up in Him and being stabilized in the faith, just as you were taught and overflowing with thanksgiving.
So Paul was encouraging them, be strong Christians, have this said, deep spiritual tap root, so to speak.
Have your faith solid in Christ Jesus. I was in Louisiana last week and I tried to pull up a pecan seedling, a little plant of a pecan. Have you ever tried that?
You cannot pull it up with your hands because the tap root goes so deep you have to have a shovel.
And so that's what Paul was saying. Be sure that your spiritual strength is solid and then it goes deep.
Well, why did you say that? If you notice in verse 4, he says, I'm saying this so that no one may dilute you with persuasive arguments.
See, he was concerned that even those with strong spiritual foundation that may be deceived by persuasive arguments and as a result destabilize their faith, so to speak.
So what were some of the persuasive arguments? Well, our text for today talks about them in verse 8.
He says, a lookout that no one takes you captive by means of the philosophy and empty deception according to human tradition, according to the elementary things of the world and not according to Christ.
So what were the philosophies and empty deception? Well, in Paul's time, it included the Greek philosophies, like Plato.
And that could affect the spirituality of individuals in the congregation.
There also, that term philosophy was expanded. It referred to more than just the Greek philosophers.
It had also referenced to many, many groups, many schools of thought, even religious thoughts.
And Paul didn't want them to become, their faith become destabilized because of following those improper thoughts.
And notice he said in verse 8, so that you're not made captive. He didn't want them to be captive to such thinking.
But is there something else besides the philosophies? Well, the verse 8 says, also, elementary things of the world. Now, what is that?
In answering that question, the watchtower of August 15, 2008, page 28, referred to 1st John, chapter 2, verses 15 and 16.
So let's go there. What's included in the elementary things of the world?
1st John 2, 15 and 16. It says, do not love either the world or the things in the world.
If anyone loves the world, the love of the father is not in him because everything in the world, the desire of the flesh and the desire of the eyes,
and the showy display of one's means of life, does not originate with the father, but originates with the world.
So the watchtower introduces it's not just a religious thinking that could destabilize your faith. It could be desires of the flesh.
The immoral thinking of the world could affect us spiritually.
Over the years, over the thousands of years, Satan really has carefully crafted the environment around us as a trap.
And so, he uses that effectively. In fact, he maneuvers circumstances around each one of us in order to try to work on our personal inclinations.
So that's why the second sentence of our watchtower summary says this.
We can avert disaster if we quickly identify tendencies that could lead us into temptation.
Disaster. What's that referring to?
Well, remember Paul said in the scripture up there, Colossians 2 verse 8, don't be captive.
Captive. That's what Satan wants to do. He wants to capture us.
We've heard the poster wanted dead or alive. He doesn't want us dead. He wants us alive because why?
Well, it's interesting verse in 2 Timothy tells us why the devil would prefer to have us alive.
2 Timothy, it's 2 and verse 26.
It may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, seeing that they have been caught alive by him to do his will.
If you're dead, you can't do Satan's will. So he wants to trap us alive or make us captive alive to do his will.
So what do we need to do to keep from being trapped by Satan as the question?
Well, we read that one sentence in our comments that quickly identify tendencies.
Now, where do the tendencies start?
This is in August 1st, 1996 watchtower, page 12, paragraph 12, and here's what it says.
Unholy actions are not just spontaneous or without prior basis.
They're the result of defiling thoughts that have been lurking in the heart.
That's what happened to Judas Iscariot.
Here was an individual that he had a very deep spiritual tap root, so to speak.
And apparently Jesus didn't know that Judas would be the one betray him when he was appointed as an apostle.
Sometime in 32 CE, Jesus told his apostles, one of you is a slander.
Apparently by that time he had identified Judas as that one, possibly by his actions a perfect man Jesus could identify it early.
And the scriptures say, as a result of Judas acting on his thoughts, Satan entered into Judas.
In other words, now he was going to do the will of Satan.
But before that all happened, there had to have been some wrong thinking lurking in the heart of Judas.
What could it have been? Well, it could have involved malice, maybe greed, pride, hypocrisy, scheming.
Somewhere in there was something that wasn't right that it was going to offend Jehovah God, and he didn't rip it out.
He didn't take care of it and look what happened to Judas.
So what about us? What's lurking in our heart?
Now we all, we may be individuals with this deep spiritual taproot. We've been in the truth many years, been a Bethel many years.
Are we maybe young people? And we're serving Jehovah well right now, but all of us have these improper thoughts that we have to deal with.
Perhaps it could be something like this. Maybe there's some scheming going on in our heart and mind.
Maybe scheming of where we're going to get the next dream of alcohol.
Maybe it's an evil thought against someone that's lurking in our heart. Maybe a plan of action of how we can see pornography.
Or perhaps a unhealthy attraction to someone of the opposite sex.
If that's the case, what can we do? Remember Isaiah 30, 21, it says,
Here, Jehovah is the voice behind you saying, this is the way. Don't give in to Satan's way.
But listen to Jehovah God. Jehovah God has given us so many things that can help us to address these wrong thinking, the wrong thinking, this lurking in our hearts.
In fact, he gives us guidance in his word, the Bible. Just think of all the scriptures that we can use, no matter what the tendency we may have that can address those tendencies.
He gives us the Holy Spirit. Jesus conveys the voice of Jehovah God. He does so by means of the congregation through the direction of the faithful and discrete slave class.
So if we are unable to remove an improper tendency, then get help before Satan captures us to do his will.